Story Recapped here. Today
I'm going to explain a horror,
music, and thriller film
called “We Summon The Darkness"
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In Indiana, in July 1988, punk
best friends Alexis, Val, and Bev
go on a road trip to watch their favorite
bands perform at a heavy metal concert.
As they stop at a gas station, Bev reads
a newspaper article with the headline:
“teens slain in new satanic killings” and gets
creeped out by it, while Alexis makes fun of her.
On the counter, the station owner listens to
a religious broadcast about how people who
listen to heavy metal are hell-bound, making
the whole situation awkward. Back in the car,
the trio also hears about the prevalent killings
related to satanic cults around the country.
Bev gets too tired of hearing it, so she changes
the station. Out of nowhere, a blue vehicle
overtakes them and throws a milkshake at their
windshield. They stop by the side of the road and
clean their car up, feeling incredibly pissed.
Eventually, they arrive at the concert.
As expected, many people have turned up
to attend. The three agree on downing some drinks,
needing a bit of liquid courage to enjoy the show,
before heading out. Not long after, the
girls notice the blue van from earlier,
whose passengers threw a milkshake at their car.
They concoct a mean plan to get their payback.
Val throws a pack of small firecrackers
inside, alarming the three boys, Ivan, Kovacs,
and Mark. They hurriedly climb out of the vehicle
and see the girls laughing at their expense.
Realizing that the girls are just getting their
revenge, Ivan makes it up to them by offering
them some cold beers, a peace offering the girls
willingly accept. Forming an unlikely friendship,
the group talks more about their love for music
and the bands that will perform at the show.
In the middle of their discussion, Bev notices
a book about satanic rituals inside the van,
sensing that something is off
about the boys. She ignores this,
and they hang out with them anyway. As the
concert starts, they all enjoy the show,
dancing and singing along together.
After the concert, Alexis decides that the
night is still young and invites the three
boys to her father’s mansion. The boys like the
idea of hanging out with a group of pretty girls,
so they accept the kind invitation and
drive off to the property. On their arrival,
Alexis shows them around some of the rooms and
gives a brief run-through of the whole place.
They all decide to have a drink by a campfire in
the backyard while they continue talking about
upcoming rock bands. Throughout the night, Bev
starts to act weirdly and out of her character.
When Alexis asks her, she merely replies by saying
that she’s never done anything like this before.
Alexis reassures her that everything will be
fine as long as she just follows her lead.
Bev is convinced to mingle with the group and
heads outside. She bumps into Mark, spilling her
drink. Mark offers her his jacket, where she
finds a pocket knife inside. She walks away,
feeling disturbed and wondering why he’s
casually carrying a sharp weapon with him.
She expresses her concerns to Alexis, but she
only tells her worried friend to relax and enjoy
the night.
After they make a toast to having a memorable
night, Alexis initiates a game of Never Have I
Ever, and they all share laughs and exchange
stories about funny experiences they have tried.
Suddenly, Alexis says, “Never have I ever
drugged someone’s drink.” None of them take a
shot initially, but Ivan and Kovacs are surprised
to see the three girls take one. In a long stretch
of silence, the girls reveal that they drugged
the drinks beforehand. The boys then slowly pass
out one by one. As the girls wake them up, Ivan,
Mark, and Kovacs find themselves tied to chairs
in a room filled with candles. Val and Alexis
keep taunting the boys in a menacing and sinister
way while Bev stands behind them, observing
the whole situation as it is her first time.
The three boys desperately ask them to let them
go while screaming for help, but it proves to
be ineffective. It turns out that the three
girls are members of a congregation called,
The Daughters of the Dawn. Their members are also
responsible for the several murders circling the
country. Every week, a specific group is assigned
to conduct brutal crimes to practice what they
believe in. They explain further that the reason
behind it is to create fear among the nation and
send more people to join their religion. When Mark
asks more critical questions about the religion,
Alexis becomes more agitated in explaining and
reasoning out the logic of their congregation.
Meanwhile, Ivan has had enough of her big speech.
He continues to look down on their beliefs, saying
that it is nothing short of pointless and stupid.
Alexis becomes furious and stabs him in the neck,
causing him to bleed to death. She then approaches
Mark, commanding him to beg for forgiveness while
she holds him at knifepoint. Just as Alexis
is about to stab him, Bev holds her back,
saying they need to talk about something
urgent. Val and Alexis hesitantly follow
her out of the room, giving the two boys an
opportunity to come up with a plan to escape.
In the bathroom, Bev tells both of them that
she wants to be the one who kills Mark and Kovacs.
Alexis agrees so she gives out instructions on how
to bring them out. However, the two boys briefly
escape and find a safe room to hide so that they
could spare more time. But as they hear the trio
approaching, they get trapped inside the pantry.
The girls are unaware that the boys are
hiding right behind the pantry door.
Inside, Mark tends to Kovacs’ wounds which
he got while trying to flee from the girls.
Meanwhile, to speed up the process of their
agenda, Alexis orders Bev to find tools so
they could break the door quickly. She hesitantly
abides after Alexis blames the nuisance on her.
Shaken by everything she has witnessed, Bev tries
her best to maintain composure while getting tools
from a nearby shed.
In the house, chaos is just about to start
again when Alexis finds aerosol and sprays it
by the door, causing Mark and Kovacs to cough
and have difficulty breathing. Suddenly, they
hear someone arrive at the house and immediately
stop what they are doing to find out who it is.
To Alexis’ surprise, her stepmother, Susan, came
by the house to retrieve a passport she needed
for her trip the next day. Before leaving, she
informs Alexis that she called the police because
she saw a strange blue van parked and the lights
on, thinking that someone might have broken in,
but realizes that it was just a false alarm.
Just as she makes her way out, Susan hears broken
bottles in the pantry and senses that something
is going on, so she tries to make her way there to
find out on her own. Alexis repeatedly says that
nothing is there, but her actions seem defensive,
making Susan more curious. Susan discovers
Ivan's lifeless body in the living room.
This forces Alexis to take a fatal course of
action and immediately stabs her. The commotion
makes Val panic for some time as killing an extra
person was not part of their plan. To make things
worse, the police are on their way.
All the while, Bev is still at the shed,
unable to face the chaos in the house.
She scours through some documents that contain
property titles owned by Alexis’ father,
John Henry, and a bag of money. In the pantry,
Mark and Kovacs prepare to battle the girls
with broken wine bottles, but Alexis and Val use
an aerosol spray to put flames by the doorway.
This puts the boys in a much more vulnerable
position, given that they are trapped inside.
At that exact moment, an officer named Sheriff
Dembrowski arrives at the house as a response
to Susan’s call, and Alexis tries to reason out
with the officer so that he could leave. However,
Dembrowski is not shaken by her charms and alibis,
so he requires Alexis to provide an I.D., but she
runs away instead. He chases her into the house
and comes across the sight of satanic symbols, and
Ivan’s corpse in the living room. The scene gets
him in complete disbelief and terror, making him
more vigilant of his surroundings. After hearing
noises from the pantry, he finds the injured
Kovacs and Mark, who pleads for help. Dembrowski
refuses to believe them, putting them in
handcuffs. Unbeknownst to him, Val sneaks up from
behind him, takes his weapon, and shoots him dead,
making the two boys enter the pantry once again.
Upon finding out that Val killed Dembrowski,
Alexis freaks out and takes the gun away from
her, but she refuses, causing them to brawl.
As they fight over the weapon,
Bev appears out of nowhere and threatens her
friends with an electric trolling motor. She tells
them that she will let the boys go despite their
contradictions. Her friends tell Bev that they are
practicing the Lord's work, but Bev has had enough
of all the lies, revealing that Alexis’ father,
one of the religions’ leaders, is simply pocketing
the donations made by members. Instead of building
shelters which he promised, he spends the money
on purchasing luxurious houses like the one they
are in. While Alexis calls Bev a lost lamb for not
thinking straight and participating in their plan,
Val sneaks up on her, and she manages to knock
Bev down. An enraged Bev inflicts wounds on both
her friends using the trolling motor just as Mark
and Kovacs gather the courage to exit the pantry.
They set their eyes on Bev and attack her. This
allows Alexis and Val to run away when the two
boys realize that Bev is on their side.
As time passes, Kovacs’ condition worsens and he
will not last much longer unless he is brought
to a hospital. Willing to get out, Mark grabs
a knife to retrieve the car keys from Alexis
while Bev helps the bloody Kovacs hide in a
safe corner as they deal with her friends.
When Kovacs spots car lights from outside,
he makes his way out despite his struggles.
There, he finds John Henry, the pastor of the
Daughters of the Dawn, and also Alexis’ father.
Initially, John Henry opens a casual conversation
with Kovacs, who is utterly distressed. Then,
he instructs Kovacs to go to the car, call
9-1-1, and hand him the weapon. Kovacs follows
his instructions but suddenly recognizes him as
the famous pastor. John Henry notices the look
of recognition and mercilessly shoots him dead.
In the dark home, the last remaining people try
their best to be as quiet as possible, which is
their tool for survival. It now draws a thin line
between life and death, as every move and sound
is crucial. When Bev tracks the light switch,
Val sneaks up on her again to prevent her from
turning the light back on. Without a choice, they
beat each other up despite their friendship, and
Bev lights Val’s hair full of hairspray on fire,
giving her a way to put the power back on.
Meanwhile, Mark manages to get a hold of his
car keys in the bedroom, but Alexis fights him,
causing a big fight inside the room. Unexpectedly,
Kovacs makes it back inside the house, where Bev
comes to his rescue. Before he dies, he pleads
with Bev to save Mark no matter what, his final
act of honoring their friendship. In a matter of
minutes, John Henry shoots Mark, who is strangling
Alexis in the bedroom. John Henry berates his
daughter for not controlling the situation,
costing more bodies for him to cover up. In tears,
Alexis explains that it isn’t her fault, but her
father says they have to make some sacrifices to
get out of the trouble she has caused the group.
John Henry attempts to strangle Alexis when Bev
comes from behind and knocks him unconscious.
After thanking Bev for saving her, Alexis still
acts manically and strangles her in return.
Dramatically, Bev throws her right out of a window
as an act of self-defense before coming to Mark’s
rescue. Both of them flee the house, leaving
all of the dead bodies behind in cold blood.
The two jump into the car and do not even take
a moment to look at the scene that overtook the
place. To their surprise, they see Alexis bravely
standing on their way, hungry for more brutality,
leaving no choice but for Bev to run her over.
The following day, news reports about the
incident are broadcasted on television.
John Henry, who made it out alive,
turns himself into a victim,
claiming that his daughter, Alexis, joined a
satanic cult called “We Summon The Darkness,”
causing everything to go downhill. At the same gas
station they stopped at, Bev gathers some medical
supplies to tend to her wounds and sees the owner
watching the news. Before leaving, she reminds him
not to believe everything he sees, but the old
man just gets puzzled by this. Back in the car,
Bev and Mark leave the town and
the darkness it has caused them.